The Fremennik Isles (January 2, 2009)
Sources: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3vSEnb9V6o

Talk to Mord Gunmors on Rellekka's northern docks to start the quest.

Mord Gunnars: "Hello, are you <fremennikname> by any chance?"
Player: "My name is <playername>, but I am known as <fremennikname> by the Fremennik. May I ask who you are?"
Mord Gunnars: "Of course, I am Mord Gunnars, a humble ferryman."
Mord Gunnars: "I come from an island north of here called Jatizso, while my wife Maria is from Neitiznot."
Maria Gunnars: "Hello."
Mord Gunnars: "The King of Jatizso has requested that I take you to him, as he has an important task for you."

Select an Option
	"Tell me more about Jatizso's history."
		Player: "Tell me more about Jatizso."
		Mord Gunnars: "Well now, the history of the isles is a bloody tale. When told in its intended form it takes 9 days and 9 nights. However, I will give you the abridged version."
		Player: "Phew!"
		Mord Gunnars: "Four generations ago there was a mighty king who ruled wisely and was loved by all."
		Mord Gunnars: "He had many sons, most of whom proved themselves in the usual Fremennik ways of fighting, sailing, drinking and so on."
		Mord Gunnars: "His youngest two songs, however, were a problem. Ever since they were old enough to hit one another they had bickered and fought."
		Maria Gunnars: "Their names were Jatizso and Neitiznot."
		Mord Gunnars: "Hey! Who's telling this story?"
		Mord Gunnars: "Ahem. At the time it was customary for the Kings' sons to claim a prize from his treasury when they came of age."
		Mord Gunnars: "Each brother rallied support and strode out to confront the other on the field of battle to claim the same prize."
		Mord Gunnars: "The brothers met on the field, limbs were bruised, bones were crushed and heads clashed."
		Maria Gunnars: "They probably didn't notice the head-clashing bit. Too thick skulled!"
		Mord Gunnars: "Can I finish the story without interruptions?"
		Maria Gunnars: "Carry on dear."
		Mord Gunnars: "Anyway, long into the night they fought, until they stood alone, facing each other."
		Mord Gunnars: "On the second day the old king, whose patience was exhausted, strode out onto the field and demanded to know who had claimed his prize." 
		Mord Gunnars: "Jatizso looked at his father and told him yes, it was his, to which the other called out 'No! It's not.'"
		Mord Gunnars: "And so, the argument continued through to the third day, with the sounds of 'Jah! 'tis so!', 'Ne! It's not!' echoing over the field, becoming more hoarse as the darkness enveloped the brothers."
		Maria Gunnars: "Bah! What they needed was a good clip round the ear."
		Mord Gunnars: "At the end of the third day, when the brothers lay unable to move, let alone stand, the King stood between them in shame."
		Mord Gunnars: "As punishment for their squabbling he banished his sons from his realm, ordering that neither should return until they had conquered lands of their own."
		Mord Gunnars: "Jatizso set sail with a band of loyal followers, sailing into the easy, while Neitiznot went west."
		Mord Gunnars: "Jatizso ventured far into uncharted oceans, his crew dwindling as the trials of sailing and sea monsters took them."
		Mord Gunnars: "Jatizso's ship limped through the frozen wastes, in need of repairs, fighting off pirates who thought them easy pickings."
		Mord Gunnars: "At last a promising land was sighted, a land rich in minerals, deep fjords and sweeping mountains."
		Mord Gunnars: "Jatizso claimed the land and named it after himself."
		Mord Gunnars: "A mighty citadel was constructed to protect his land; then Jatiszo set forth to explore his new kingdom."
		Mord Gunnars: "Crossing a few fjords, Jatizso spied an island which remained green and fertile, even at such a latitude."
		Mord Gunnars: "With a mighty cheeer, Jatizso and his men matched on the island. Upon reaching the island, however, they discovered a wooden stockade."
		Mord Gunnars: "Determined to be master of all the land, Jatizso stood in front of the gates. He look up and demanded that those within the stockade surrendered."
		Mord Gunnars: "Jatizso was horrified when his brother appeared on the battlements and cried 'This is my land! Go find yer own'. To which his brother replied 'No it's not!', throwing some rocks for good measure."
		Mord Gunnars: "And so the blood feud continued."
		Mord Gunnars: "The fighting between the towns has continued for generations with little sign of improvement."
		Mord Gunnars: "Quite recently a massive troll army seized one of the islands to the north, while our townships' militias were busy fighting one another."
		Mord Gunnars: "They marched down and razed Neitiznot to the ground while Neitiznot's troops laid seige to Jatizso."
		Maria Gunnars: "The smoke damage was atrocious, I had to replace my entire wardrobe."
		Mord Gunnars: "Yes, dear."
		Mord Gunnars: "Anyways, a hasty sort of peace has been agreed until the trolls are dealt with."
		Mord Gunnars: "But you can still see the bitter rivalry as guards hurl insults between the towns."
		<back to choices>
		
	"Tell me more about the King of Jatizso."
		Player: "Tell me more about the King of Jatizso."
		Mord Gunnars: "Ha! Our benevolent King Gjuki Sorvott IV."
		Mord Gunnars: "He is short-tempered, arrogant and cares little about anything except outdoing Neitiznot's Burgher."
		Maria Gunnars: "He's not at all like Burgher Burowgar."
		Mord Gunnars: "I'm surprised King Sorvott wishes to talk to you. Don't expect much in the way of gratitude."
		<back to choices>
	"Can you ferry me to Jatizso?"
		Player: "Can you ferry me to Jatizso?"
		Mord Gunnars: "Of course."
		<end dialogue, progresses story>

	"I'm too busy to help your king."
		Player: "I'm too busy to help your king."
	
	
Talk to the king

King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Guard, who is this outlander?"
Hrafn: "Meeow?" (if wearing catspeak necklace, "An outlander, how unusual. Welcome.")
Guard: "This is <fremennikname>, your majesty."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Is this true? You are the outlander who has been given a Fremennik name?"
Hrafn: "Miouw...meow" (if wearing catspeak necklace, "You have a human Fremennik name, how unusual.")
Player: "Indeed I am."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Excellent."
Player: "How many I assist your highness?"
Hrafn: "Meow!" (if wearing catspeak necklace, "Well, outlander, one requires a fish immediately.")
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Behave, Hrafn!"
Hrafn: "Meeeiouw! Mewwww!"(if wearing catspeak necklace, "Behave yourself human! One shall behave as one lines.")
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "I have a task that requires your unique-"
Hrafn: "MEEEEOOOUW!!!!"(if wearing catspeak necklace, "Will you stop interrupting one? For the last time one requires tuna immediately.")
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Not now, Hrafn."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Now, where was I?"
Player: "You mentioned a task requiring my unique-"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Ah, yes."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Your unique position among Fremennik-"
Hrafn: "MEEEIOOOOUW; MIOOOOOEW; YOOWLLL!" (if wearing catspeak necklace, "For goodness' sake! One might acquire the mistkaken impression that the human rules this place. I command you to feed me.")
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Hrafn! Oh, alright, alright I give in."
Hrafn: "Purrr."(if wearing catspeak necklace, "About time too, insolent human-pet.")
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Look, could you fetch my cat some fish?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Then we can finish our conversation in peace."
Player: "Yes, that's probably a good idea."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Thank you."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Hrafn will only eat raw tuna."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Will any raw tuna do?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Yes, fussy though Hrafn is, he doesn't care where the tuna comes from."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "If you don't already have any, you can catch some down by the ducks, or you can buy some from my fishmonger, Flosi Dalksson."
<end dialogue, quest progresses.>

Give raw tuna to the stuck up pussycat.
Player: "Here you go. Enjoy your fish!"
Hrafn: "Purrrrrrrrrr" (if wearing catspeak necklace, "One is satisfied with the freshness of the tuna. The humans have acted satisfactorily in this matter.")
"Hopefully Hrafn won't disturb your discussion with the King now."
<end dialogue, quest progresses>

Talk to the king
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Now, what was I saying?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Ah, yes, so the Burgher of Neitiznot Island is an enemy of free-thinking Jatiszo citizens. My informants tell me an increased number of trade ships have been seen docking at their ports. They must be preparing for"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "something. Chancellor, fill in the details."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Sire, Sire! The Kelda merchants have arrived, they are three days early. We're not ready!"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "What? We cannot afford to offend the Red Axe traders. Where are they now?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "They are in the hall, eating and drinking us out of food and beer. It's costing us a fortune."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Another good reason to get them their ore and get them out of town. Get all out miners on the job now!"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "I already have."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "They'll never get enough ore in time, the bunch of lazy no-good layabouts."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Bah! Those miners haven't learned their lesson."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "It may be time for some extra incentives."
Player: "Wait a minute! I'm fairly handy with a pick axe. Maybe I can help; what do you need?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "We need six pieces of mithril ore for Keldagrim's merchants."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "The entrance to our mines are to the north-east of the western gatehouse, outside the walls."
Player: "If I just happen to have the ore you need in the bank, do I need to go down to your mines?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "If you bring us the ore, we won't ask where it came from. Don't worry we're discreet."
Player: "Hmmm, Interesting. I'll get the ore then."
<end dialogue, quest progresses.>

Talk to Thorky-chan after you get the ore.

Thorkel Silkbeard: "Excellent news, your majesty."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Please reward this <playergender> for <playerpronoun> efforts."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Of course your majesty."
"Thorkel Silkbeard takes a note for six lumps of mitril ore." (if unnoted, "Thorkel Silkbeard takes six lumps of mithril ore.")
"Thorkel Silkbeard hands you 5000 coins."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Thank you <fremennikname>. If only our miners were as efficient as you."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Right. Now let us get down to business young <fremennikname>. Let us hope we have no more interruptions."
Player: "Certainly, your Majesty."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Neitiznot's Burgher, Mawnis Burowgar, is a simpleton and a fool."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "I have bested him before and will do so again!"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "He is surely plotting a new plan to defeat me."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "He's up to something, he's always up to something."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "I will not be kept in the dark about his plans any longer. I must know what underhand tricks he'll use to undermine me. He's out to get me! Get me I say!"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Ahem, I see, sir. How may I help in this matter?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Well, I have heard that some call you 'bard' in Rellekka. Your lyre-playing reputation has carried this far."
Player: "You want me to play the lyre? Well actually, I've been working on a few tunes in my spare time. I have this new song abou-"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Silence! I do not wish to hear your wailing. All bards are charlatans and fools."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "However, a fool is exactly what I need right now."
Player: "Oh."
Player: "It's a great tune, very catchy, you'll love-"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Bah! Bards are all the same, they never shut up! If I need to be entertained I'll hire a mime; maybe I'll get some rest then. Now if you'll listen, I'll explain what I want you to do."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "In the past I have sent my Spymaster to 'entertain' the Burgher, and to see what he can find out."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "You see, the Burgher of Neitiznot and his aides like a drink when they are being entertained, and their tongues are loose when they drink."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "However, yesterday my spy had an accident and could no longer help me in this task. However he is still stationed on Neitiznot."
Player: "So this is a covert operation into Neitiznot? You need me to infiltate the Burgher's hall, undercover, and uncover his evil plans?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Exactly, <fremennikname>. So are you interested?"
Player: "Sounds like a task for an elite adventurer like myself. Mission accepted."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Excellent, <fremennikname>, you and I will get on very well."
Player: "So what is the easiest way to get to Neitiznot?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "I suggest you catch Mord's ferry back to Rellekka and then catch a ferry from there."
Player: "Are you sure that's the best way?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "You may find a way to walk across the islands, but the bridges are almost certainly broken, and there are trolls which are a bit of a nuisance. The ferry is probably both quicker and safer."
Player: "I'll be off then."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Oh, there is one more thing. In order to gain an audience with the Burgher, you will need my Spymaster's, err, costume."
Player: "Costume?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "The costume is in my chest. Don't forget to pick up all the pieces."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Then travel to Neitiznot and talk to my Spymaster. He is still over there. He will fill you in with the details, and you may report to him."
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Oh, the Spymaster is a secretive kind of guy. He will require a password. The password is 'free stuff please'.
Player: "What sort of password is that?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Don't ask me, it was his idea."
Player: "Fine. What's his name?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "His name is Slug Hemligssen, but don't expect him to answer to it."
Player: "So how will I recognize him?"
King Gjuki Sorvott IV: "Don't worry, you'll find him."
<end of dialogue, quest progresses>

Open chest

Choose an option
	"Take the jester's hat."
		"You take the jester's . It's pointy."
	"Take the jester's top."
		"You take the jester's top. It's top."
	"Take the jester's tights."
		"You take the jester's tights. They're tight."
	"Take the jester's boots."
		"You take the jester's boots. They're, err, booty!"
	    <end dialogue, quest progresses>
System message: "I have the complete jester's costume."

Equip jester outfit.

Take the ferry to Neitiznot, then talk to Sluggy ol' boy.

What do you want to say?
	"Hello."
	"The blue fish leap northward at dawn."
	"It rains frogs during the Winter in Neitiznot."
	"Free stuff please."
		Player: "Free stuff please."
		Slug Hemligssen: "Ah, Operative Budgie. Welcome to the island."
		Player: "Budgie? That's not my name, you can call me-"
		Slug Hemligssen: "Shh!"
		Slug Hemligssen: "No names! Names are unnecessary. Loose lives cost tongues."
		Player: "Shouldn't that be... never mind. So Mr Hemli-"
		Slug Hemligssen: "Shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!"
		Player: "Sorry, no names. I forgot."
		Slug Hemligssen: "Call me Operative Nighthawk."
		Player: "How come you get the cool name, and I get called Budgie? Can't I be called Operative Panther? Yeah, I like that, panthers are cool. Rarrr!"
		Slug Hemligssen: "This is not a democracy, Operative! Panther already exists and he's working on a mission in Al Kharid. It's my way or the highway."
		Player: "Fine, whatever, I don't care anyway."
		Slug Hemligssen: "To business. Here are the details of your operation. You will infiltrate Burgher Burowgar's hall, deep undercover as a traveling entertainer. Burgher Burowgar and his men are known to relax in the"
		Slug Hemligssen: "prescence of a jester - and a few barrels of beer. To get the information required from the court of Burgher Burowgar you must entertain him."
		Slug Hemligssen: "While you are obeying the Burgher's instructions you should listen in on the conversations of his council and make note of what they discuss."
		Slug Hemligssen: "When you return I shall ask you a few questions about what you have learned."
		Player: "Very well."
		Slug Hemligssen: "You must wear all four pieces of the jester constume without anything in your hands, as the Burgher's guards will search you thoroughly."
		Slug Hemligssen: "Are you ready to begin?"
		
		Select an Option
			"I am ready."
				(If you're got something in your hands or not wearing the full jester set.)
				Slug Hemligssen: "Not dressed like that you're not! You'd betterget the rest of your kit, or empty your hands if you have anything in them."
				<end of conversation>
				
			"I just need to visit the bank."
				Player: "I just need to visit the bank."
				Slug Hemligssen: "Hurry back; we must know what Neitiznot's ruler is planning."
				Player: "I shall return soon."
				
			
	"Colourless green ideas sleep furiously."


Talk to the mighty Burgher King.

Player: "Errr, hello. I'm an unemployed jester looking for work."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Ah! A fool! Excellent. The last entertainer I had was not up to standard."
Player: "Well, I'm as entertaining as a juggler with a bag of ferrets down his trousers."
Mawnis Burowgar: "HA HA HA! Now that's funny."
Player: "I like an easy, I mean appreciative, audience."
Player: "Shall I start?"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Mm? Oh yes of course... bag of ferrets eh? Haha!"

<cue transition to minigame layout>
Mawnis Burowgar: "Well, new Jester! This had better be good."
Player: "I hope I can amuse and delight as much as your last jester."
Mawnis Burowgar: "If you can amuse or delight me at all, you'll be doing much better than the last one."
Guard: "Actually his juggling was quite funny. Shame about the accident though."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Bah, if he'd been a decent juggler, he could have juggled the battleaxe, flaming torches, and a greased pigs we threw at him."
Player: "I see, a tough crowd then. I'd better get this right."

<minigame starts>
Overhead dialogues:
Player: "Let me entertain you!"

Mawnis Burowgar: "Jig, you fool!"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Talk, fool"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Juggle, fool."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Dance, fool."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Skip, fool."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Pie in your face"
(If you fail) Mawnis Burowgar: "Useless fool! Return when you routine is more polished!" (Fix the typo if you want)

Front-right guard: "When do we assault the caves?"
Front-left guard: "I can be ready in two days."
Front-right guard: "Good, my recruits are nearly ready."
Front-left guard: "How many militia have you trained?"
Front-right guard: "Seventeen so far"
Front-left guard: "More shields will be completed by noon."
Front-right guard: "And the armor?"
Front-left guard: "I will finish their armour tomorrow"
Front-right guard: "And the two bridges we need repaired?"
Front-left guard: "I will fix them as soon as I can."


Back-left guard: "The bottle had a paper hat in it."
Back-right guard: "Fancy a pint at the Yellow Hind later?"
Back-left guard: "Don't you owe me a pint of beer?"
Back-right guard: "What was in that bottle you found?"
Back-left guard: "I have seen better jesters."
Back-right guard: "Och..."
Back-left guard: "Go on, drop it!"
Back-left guard: "I wonder what's for dinner?"
Back-right guard: "Coming over for a game of cards later?"

<minigame ends>

If you succeed...

Mawnis Burowgar: "Well, thank you, that was much better than the last jester."
Player: "Thanks."

<end dialogue, quest progresses>

Talk to Slug Hemligssen.

Slug Hemligssen: "Have you obtained the information we require?"

Select an Option
	"Yes I have."
		Player: ""Yes I have."
		Slug Hemligssen: "Now I will ask you some questions, but be warned I have other sources of information that will corroborate your answers."
		Player: "I'm ready to answer your questions, Operative Nighthawk."
		Slug Hemligssen: "How soon does Thakkrad think Neitiznot's troops can be ready?"
		
		Select an Option
				"They are ready now."
				"They will be ready tomorrow."
				"They will be ready in two days."
					Player: "They will be ready in two days."
					Slug Hemligssen: "How many militia have been trained?"
					Select an Option
						"Sixteen militia have been trained."
						"Seventeen militia have been trained."
							Player: "Seventeen militia have been trained."
							Slug Hemligssen: "How many bridges does Thrakkrad need repairing?"
								
							Select an option	
								"There are two bridges to repair."
									Player: "There are two bridges to repair."
									Slug Hemligssen: "Hmmm. I believe you're telling me the truth."
									Player: "I would not lie to you."
									Slug Hemligssen: "Well done! I shall inform the King of your good work. I have been authorized to give you this..."
									"Slug Hemligssen hands you 2500 coins."
									Slug Hemligssen: "Thanks to you, we know a little more about Neitiznot's plans."
									Slug Hemligssen: "While you were deep undercover, I received instructions from 'Big Daddy'"
									Player: "'Big Daddy'? Do you mean the K-"
									Slug Hemligssen: "Shhhh! Yes, I mean the head operative back at home-base. He has given me permission to follow up any leads based on your intelligence."
									Slug Hemligssen: "It would be useful to know exactly when the Neitiznot engineers intend to repair the bridges. I'd do it myself but my injury stops me."
									Slug Hemligssen: "Curse this arm and my reckless bravery in the pursuit of intelligence."
									Player: "I heard you had an accident whilst juggling."
									Slug Hemligssen: "*ahem* Misinformation my <boy/girl>. Misinformation and misdirection."
									Player: "Is that so?"
									Slug Hemligssen: "Anyway, enough chit-chat."
									Slug Hemligssen: "You should gain the trust of the Burgher."
									Slug Hemligssen: "You must not mention our arrangement."
									Slug Hemligssen: "Indeed, if you are offered tasks by Neitiznot's folk or Burgher, you should go along with them to avoid arousing suspicion."
									Slug Hemligssen: "Once you know that the bridges have been repaired then return to me."
									Slug Hemligssen: "Oh, I'd take your jester's costume off first, if I were you."
									<end of conversation, quest progresses>
									
								"There are three bridges to repair."
								"There are four bridges to repair."
						"Eighteen militia have been trained."
						
						
					
	"I need to make a fool out of myself again."


Talk to the Burgher king again. 

Mawnis Burowgar: "Hmmmm. Guard! Who is this outlander who has been brought before me?"
Friedlief: "Sire, this is the one who has been honoured with a Fremennik name. A rare honour indeed, for an outlander."
Mawnis Burowgar: "You jest! She doesn't look that impressive to me."
Player: "Ahem. I am indeed known as <fremennikname> by those in Rellekka."
Player: "If I am the one you seek, then how may I assist you?"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Well, I have sought an audience with you for several days now."
Mawnis Burowgar: "I have need for a courageous and valiant individual."
Mawnis Burowgar: "One who will not flee at the sight of jest a few trolls." (Fix the typo if you want.)
Player: "Ha! It is trolls that fear me! I am Fremennik!"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Ha! Well said! However, this is no jesting matter. Althrough a Fremennik name goes a great way towards gaining my trust, I must ask that you prove your loyalty to me and my kinsfolk."
Friedlief: "Sire, surely that isn't necessary! Any man who has done the Trials of Manhood can be trusted."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Trust me Friedlief, I think in this case it is necessary. Anyway, there are many tasks that need to be done. Some of them menial, and <fremennikname> needs to show me that <playerpronoun> can handle these as well as the ones that"
Mawnis Burowgar: "simply require bravery. We on Neitiznot are warriors, but we are not just warriors."
Friedlief: "I apologise for speaking out of turn. The Burgher is wise as always."
Player: "I would be honoured to assist you and your tribe, Burgher Burowgar. Indeed I expected no less. This sort of thing seems to happen to me a lot."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Good."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Thrakkrad, which tasks remain?"
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "There are a few building projects that could do with a strong extra hand."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Well then, <fremennikname>, are you willing to assist my engineer?"
Player: "Of course, Mawnis Burowgar."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "The bridges to the troll islands need repairing if we are to send a party over. First of all, we will need eight lengths of rope; maybe <fremennikname> could assist me with this."
Player: "Right! I'll just go to the bank and get some rope."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Bank? Why do you need to go to a bank? Neitiznot is the home of quality rope. The hairs of the local yak have the perfect combination of strength and hardiness required from modern rope. Yak rope is stronger and"
Mawnis Burowgar: "better than any other rope."
Player: "I thought rope was made from wool. Not yak hair."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Wool? Wool? What a load of old rope. Wool would make an awful rope - it's far too soft and would soak up water too easily."
Player: "How come Ned from Draynor makes rope out of wool?"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Ned? I don't know anything about Ned. I do know we make regular trades with someone in that area. We send them rope, and we get wool in return."
Player: "So Ned doesn't make the rope? What a fraud! He had fooled me for so long."
Player: "Anyway, so that means all rope is made by Neitiznot from yak hair."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Indeed."
Player: "So if I happen to have some rope in the bank then that would also be made from high quality Neitiznot yak hair."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Well, yes."
Player: "So I could just give you the rope I already have rather than make more rope?"
Mawnis Burowgar: "I suppose so. You should really try to make some rope yourself though. Fighting the dual challenges of the yak's hooves and its smell is part of becoming a man over here."
Player: "I've had enough of strange 'coming of age' rituals for the time being. I'm going to the bank and get the rope you need."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Suit yourself."
<end dialogue, quest progresses>

Talk to Thrakkrad Sigmundson when you have 8 rope.

Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Have you collected the eight pieces of rope we need yet?"
Player: "I have them right here!"
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Ah, excellent quality rope. Good work, <fremennikname>."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Thrakkrad! Please reward <fremennikname> for <playerpronoun> efforts."
(If you don't have a space for gold in your inventory for the reward)
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "You don't have space for the Burgher's reward."
<end dialogue>
(If you have space)
"Thrakkrad Sigmundson hands you 1000 coins."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Good work, we will need that rope later. Put it somewhere same for the time being would you?"
Player: "I'll do that shortly."
Player: "So, I've done your menial task; what is this secret quest? That's what really interests me."
Mawnis Burowgar: "My, you are both impertinent and impatient. I have two more tasks for you before I am willing to tell you the full details."
Player: "Very well, what must I do next?"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Thrakkrad?"
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "I require eight arctic pine logs, which have been split in two. Arctic pines grow around the village and there is a 'Woodcutting stump' in the centre of the village you can split the logs on."
Player: "I see. That shouldn't be a problem."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Once you have eight pieces of rope and eight split logs I will explain how you can use them to repair the bridges that the trolls attacked a few days ago."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Well then, <fremennikname>, are you willing to assist my engineer?"
Player: "I would be happy to help your kinsfolk, Mawnis Burowgar.
Mawnis Burowgar: "Ah, a bit more respect. That's better."
Mawnis Burowgar: "I shall speak with you again once you have prepared these split logs."
<end of dialogue>

Speak to The Mighty Burger King again once you get the eight split logs.

Mawnis Burowgar: "Hello again; do you have the eight split logs that Thrakkrad asked you to make?"
Player: "I have them right here."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "My, that was fast."
Mawnis Burowgar: "<fremennikname> has returned with the split logs you asked for. Please reward <playerpronoun> for their effort."
"Thrakkrad Sigmundson hands you 1500 coins."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Good work. Now that you have both the rope and split logs I shall explain how you go about repairing our bridges."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Once this is complete I shall explain the quest I have for you."
Player: "Very well, what must I do next?"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Thrakkrad, could you explain what needs doing next?"
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "I would like you to repair the two bridges leading to the northern isle."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "To repair each bridge you will need four pieces of rope, four split logs and a knife."
Player: "Very well, I shall get on with that now."
Friedlief Shieldson: "You may find a bridge to a small isle, rich in resources. You may not be able to repair it, as I still have to replace the maid supports. Leave that bridge - we don't need it to make our raid"
Mawnis Burowgar: "I shall speak with you again once you have repaired the bridges."

<end dialogue, quest progresses>

Go to the two bridges, right click them, and click the 'repair' option.

Then return to Mawnis Burowgar and talk to him.

Mawnis Burowgar: "Ho there! Have you repaired both bridges for my enginner?"
Player: "I have carried out your orders, Sir."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Excellent. We are one step closer to putting my plan into action."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Now that the bridges are repaired I feel I can tell you of our plans."
Mawnis Burowgar: "First, I shall have my enginner reward you for your efforts."
Mawnis Burowgar: "<fremennikname> has repaired both bridges. Please reward <playerpronoun> for their efforts, Thrakkrad."
Player: "That is most generous of you, Sir."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "We are a generous folk, over here on Neitiznot."
"Thrakkrad Sigmundson hands you 1500 coins."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Good work! Now that you have repaired our bridges I can make the final preparations for our assault on the troll caves."
Player: "Troll caves!"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Long ago, the ancestors of this isle fought heroically against the troll menace upon theses isles."
Mawnis Burowgar: "But, for the last few generations, we have been preoccupied with fighting our neighbours on Jatizso."
Mawnis Burowgar: "In our complacency, the trolls have grown in number and strength and have become increasingly brazen in their raids, attacking our kinsfolk, stealing and destroying our belongings. Now the time has come for"
Mawnis Burowgar: "us to drive the trolls from this isle. We must defeat their leader, the foul Troll King."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Although I'm confident we will be victorious, I am a cautious man."
Mawnis Burowgar: "We have suffered many generations and the blood of our ancestors grows weak."
Mawnis Burowgar: "But now, in this time of prosperity, Friedlief has recruited the bravest Fremennik warriors from far and wide to win back our honor."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Now that you have proven your loyalty, I offer you the honour of leading my forces into battle."
Mawnis Burowgar: "What say you, <fremennikname>?"
Player: "I am honoured, Burowgar."
Player: "I gratefully accept your offer to lead the charge against your foes."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Excellent! Once Friedlief's militia arrive and are fully equipped we shall head north into the troll caves."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Glory to the Fremenniks."
Honourguard: "Death to the trolls."
Mawnis Burowgar: "I have one last concern. I suspect King Sorvott may have some idea that we intend to make this raid."
Mawnis Burowgar: "I'm afraid that may be true sire."
Mawnis Burowgar: "If he and his men were willing to aid us in this task then that would not be a problem, however I suspect that Sorvott will see our attempts and misinterpret them. He may well attempt to prevent us. I need to know the"
Mawnis Burowgar: "extent of his knowledge so I may plan. <fremennikname>, I suspect you may be able to help us here. I find underhand methods distasteful, however I ask you to go to Jatiszo and find the King's plan by whatever means"
Mawnis Burowgar: "you are familiar with."
Player: "I can do this sire."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Do you need anything from me to help you?"
Player: "Err, no. I believe I already have all the...contacts I need."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Excellent. Then make your way with haste."
<end of dialogue, quest progresses>

Go talk to King Sorvott IV.

King Sorvott IV: "Have you gathered the information about when Neitiznot's bridges will be repaired?"
Player: "I have sir. They have been repaired."
King Sorvott IV: "Outrageous, how are they working so rapidly?"
Player: "The Fremennik are a very resourceful folk, your majesty."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "That may be, but we are very different from the vermin on Neitiznot.
King Sorvott IV: "We must amass our troops immediately. We must be ready for the Neitiznot army to attack us."
Player: "Your majesty."
King Sorvott IV: "Chancellor, how are the city's coffers? We will need to pay for the weapons and food for our soldiers."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Would you like the financial report now, sir?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Once we have pair for all the supplies you...err... I have ordered, your Royal Highness, then the coffers will be at their lowest ebb for some time. However, if we tighten our best and delay your plans for extra"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "defences, then-"
King Sorvott IV: "What! That is not acceptable! How am I supposed to run this city when I am surrounded by incompetence!"
King Sorvott IV: "Now, more than ever, we need to protect ourselves from the threat of Neitiznot. This is a time of national crisis. Every citizen of Jatiszo must bear the burden of protecting our homes. If it means that as"
King Sorvott IV: "citizens we must sacrifice some luxuries for the good of Jatizso, then it must be so. We must raies more taxes."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "But we have already collected Island Taxes this month. We'll never persuade anyone to pay it. Everyone is surviving on coppers as it is."
King Sorvott IV: "Yes, well, whatever. Needs must. Think up a new tax."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "A new tax!"
Player: "I'm not sure that's such-"
King Sorvott IV: "Be quiet serf."
Player: "Hey you-"
"The King ignores your protests."
King Sorvott IV: "Yes, I was having a discussion with King Vargas the other day. He was saying some places have taxes for all kinds of things; fur taxes, blueberry taxes, tea taxes, playing card taxes. All we need to do is pick something"
King Sorvott IV: "that lots of people have. How about a Window Tax? We have windows on the island."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "A Window Tax?"
King Sorvott IV: "Yes, yes. That's an excellent idea. I now institure a new Window Tax. Every building with windows. Other countries have Window Taxes, we need them as well."
Player: "Err, what? I'm not sure I agree with-"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "How am I going to sell this one?"
King Sorvott IV: "Well, you had better find a way, and fast. Oh, <fremennikname> you seem like someone who gets things done. I now appoint you official tax collector of Jatiszo!"
Player: "Why would I want to be a tax collector for a-"
King Sorvott IV: "Did you say something?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Shhh! Please whisper, <fremennikname>! For both our sakes just agree, otherwise he'll get into one of his moods, and who knows what he'll pronounce."
King Sorvott IV: "<fremennikname>! I command you to refill the royal coffers! Thorkel will work out the details."
"You hear Thorkel muttering to himself under his breath."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "How is this island supposed to develop if we keep spending all our money on his paranoid schemes?"
Player: "Thorkel, can you tell me about this taxation?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "You need to speak with some of the citizens of Jatiszo and collect their taxes."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Count the number of windows on each building and tax the people who work inside. 1000 per window."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "The only people who earn any real money on the island are shopkeepers. Soldiers clearly do not need to be taxed, as paying soldiers' wages is part of the reason for the tax in the first place."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Once you have finished collecting the taxes, come and speak to me again."
"Thorkle Silkbeard hands you an empty money bag, which bears the symbol of King Sorvott IV."
Thorkle Silkbeard: "Thank you for helping our fine city, <fremennikname>.
<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>

Talk to Keepa Kettilon

Player: "I have been appointed by the King to collect taxes."
Keepa Kettilon: "More taxes? How depressing."
Player: "I'm afraid the King has instituted a new Window Tax to pay for the defence of the realm. It's 1000gp per window. The tax is per building so only one of you have to pay."
Keepa Kettilon: "Why should I pay Window Tax when I don't want any windows. I'd be more than happy staring at the blank walls. How much money are we supposed to pay?"
Enter amount:
	> 5000
		Keepa Kettilon: "*sigh* It seems a lot of money for some windows."
		Player: "This tax does seem a little harsh on you."
	
	What do you want to say?
		"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
			Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up!"
			"Keepa Kettilon puts 5000gp into the tax bag."
			<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
		"I'll think about it a bit."
		
Talk to Vanligga Gastfrihet

Player: "It's tax time I'm afraid."
Vanligga Gastfrihet: "But we only paid our Island Tax last weed!"
Player: "I'm afraid the King has instituted a new Window Tax. It's 1000gp per window."
Vanligga Gastfrihet: "What?"
Vanligga Gastfrihet: "*sigh* How much do you want?"

Enter amount:
	> 5000
		Vanligga Gastfrihet: "*sigh* It seems a lot of money for some windows."
		Player: "This tax does seem a little harsh on you."
		
		What do you want to say?
			"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
				Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up!"
				"Vanligga Gastfrihet puts 5000gp into the tax bag."
				<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
			"I suppose I could pay the tax for you."
			"I'll think about it a bit."
			
Talk to Skuli Myrka

Player: "It's tax time I'm afraid."
Skuli Myrka: "But we only paid our Island Tax last weed!"
Player: "I'm afraid the King has instituted a new Window Tax. It's 1000gp per window."
Skuli Myrka: "What?"
Skuli Myrka: "*sigh* How much do you want?"

Enter amount:
	> 6000
		Skuli Myrka: "*sigh* It seems a lot of money for some windows."
		Player: "This tax does seem a little harsh on you."
		
		What do you want to say?
			"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
				Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up!"
				"Skuli Myrka puts 6000gp into the tax bag."
				<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
			"I'll think about it a bit."

Talk to Hring Hring

Player: "I am now the royal tax collector."
Hring Hring: "More taxes? How depressing."
Player: "I'm afraid the King has instituted a new Window Tax to pay for the defence of the realm. It's 1000gp per window. The tax is per building so only one of you have to pay."
Hring Hring: "Why should I pay Window Tax when I don't want any windows. I'd be more than happy staring at the blank walls. How much money are we supposed to pay?"
Enter amount:
	> 8000
		Hring Hring: "*sigh* It seems a lot of money for some windows."
		Player: "This tax does seem a little harsh on you."
	
	What do you want to say?
		"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
			Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up!"
			"Hring Hring puts 8000gp into the tax bag."
			<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
		"I'll think about it a bit."
		

Talk to King Sorvott IV

Player: "I've collected the Window Taxes as instructed."
King Sorvott IV: "Chancellor, we must have enough money to pay for the new equipment."
"Chancellor Silkbeard checks the bag."
Thorkel Silence: "Err, not quite."
King Sorvott IV: "Bah! Again, brave Jatizso citizens, sacrifices must be made."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Yes sire."
King Sorvott IV: "Hmmm. Any ideas anyone?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "How about beer?"
King Sorvott IV: "Beer? No that's a silly thing to tax. No, that really would cause a riot. Hmm, beer, beers, beards. Beards!"
King Sorvott IV: "Beards. Only the King and his advisors should be allowed untaxed beards."
King Sorvott IV: "I now proclaim there will be a new tax on beards."
Player: "So NOW you want me to collect money from everyone that has a beard. I'm not sure whether to laugh or cry."
Player: "What about moustaches?"
King Sorvott IV: "Oh yes, tax those too."
Player: "Grrr. Of course you do, sire."
<end of dialogue, quest progresses>

Talk to Keepa Kettilon

Player: "I'm back for more tax."
Keepa Kettilon: "I can't take any more of this! What ridiculous thing is worthy of taxation this time?"
Player: "Errm, it's beards this time!"
Player: "According to my books, you owe 1000gp!"
Keepa Kettilon: "But I don't have a beard, I have a finely waxed moustache. I'm definitely not beardy at all."
Player: "I'm afraid all facial hair counts for tax purposes."
Keepa Kettilon: "Surely, facial hair should be taxed on percentage of the face covered. In which case I should owe no more than 20% of the tax that wild-bearded Fremennik men pay."
Player: "Sorry, facial hair is facial hair and is liable for taxation. No arguments."
Keepa Kettilon: "That's not fair!"

What do you want to say?
	"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
		Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up! You owe the state 1000."
		Keepa Kettilon: "My faith in humanity has been sapped again. Thanks for that. Here take the money and get out of my sight."
		"Keepa Kettilon puts 1000 gp into the tax bag."
		<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
	"I'll think about it a bit."

Talk to Flosi Dalksson

Player: "I'm back for more tax."
Flosi Dalksson: "I should have guessed."
Player: "This time the King has decided to tax facial hair!"
Player: "According to my books, you owe 1000gp!"
Flosi Dalksson: "Please no. I have a wife and seven kids to support."

What do you want to say?
	"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
		Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up! You owe the state 1000."
		"Flosi Dalksson puts 1000 gp into the tax bag."
		<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
	"I'll think about it a bit."

Talk to Skuli Myrka

Player: "I'm back for more tax."
Skuli Myrka: "No more! This is an outrage!"
Player: "It is a bit, isn't it. Still, he's your King not mine!"
Skuli Myrka: "Oh, thanks a lot 'friend'. What is it this time?"
Skuli Myrka: "Don't ask me why, but this time it's beards!"
Player: "According to my books, you owe 1000gp!"
Skuli Myrka: "WHAT? This is the last straw. My father wore a beard, my father's father wore a beard; many generations of Fremennik have worn beards with pride, without having to worry about whether his pride and joy"
Skuli Myrka: "would cost him money. A beard is the core of a Fremennik's identity, it is the gateway to his soul, it is..."
Player: "Alright, I get the idea."

What do you want to say?
	"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
		Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up! You owe the state 1000."
		"Skuli Myrka puts 1000 gp into the tax bag."
		<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
	"I'll think about it a bit."


Talk to Raum Urda-Stein

Player: "I return once more..."
Raum Urda-Stein: "I would say I'm happy to see you, but that would be a lie."
Player: "Well, I can't say I blame you, since I need to tax you again."
Raum Urda-Stein: "Gah! What weak excuse for sucking his populace dry has the King come up with this time?"
Player: "This time the King has decided to tax facial hair!"
Player: "According to my books, you owe 1000gp!"
Raum Urda-Stein: "By all that is holy, this is a travesty!"
Player: "You may have a point there."

What do you want to say?
	"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
		Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up! You owe the state 1000."
		"Skuli Myrka puts 1000 gp into the tax bag."
		<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
	"I'll think about it a bit."
	
Talk to Hring Hring

Hring Hring: "No more! Haven't we all suffered enough?"
Player: "I sympathise; it's been a very taxing day for me as well." (Puns ftw)
Hring Hring: "Groan! Your lame attempts at humour do not save me money. Come on, break it to me gently, what is it this time?"
Player: "This time the King has decided to tax facial hair!"
Player: "According to my books, you owe 1000gp!"
Hring Hring: "But I don't have a beard!"
Player: "Yes you do!"
Hring Hring: "No, this is just an extension of my head hair, which is not currently being taxed."
Player: "Yeah right, no more excuses!"
Hring Hring: "Awww come on, be a gent."

What do you want to say?
	"But rules are rules. Pay up!"
		Player: "But rules are rules. Pay up! You owe the state 1000."
		"Hring Hring puts 1000 gp into the tax bag."
		<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>
	"I'll think about it a bit."
	
Talk to King Sorvott IV

Player: "I have taken money from those with significant facial hair."
King Sorvott IV: "Good, good. Chancellor, how do our finances look now?"
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Errr."
"Chancellor Silkbeard checks the bag a second time."
Thorkel Silkbeard: "Thank the gods, we finally have enough."
King Sorvott IV: "Ah, much better. I always find the sound of gold coins being poured into the treasury relaxing."
Player: "Yes, I don't think your citizens would have coped with another round of tax."
King Sorvott IV: "I have another task for you. Your espionage mission was so successful that I need you to do the same thing again. Except this time I want you to find out more about the bridge repairs they have been doing."
Player: "Bridge repairing?"
King Sorvott IV: "Indeed! I have heard some rumours that they have been getting some help from somewhere."
Player: "Really? I wonder who?"
King Sorvott IV: "You'd better find out and quickly. Get on it!"
King Sorvott IV: "Go to Neitiznot with all haste! The Spymaster will have the details, as last time."
<end of dialogue>

Don your Jester outfit

Travel to Neitiznot and talk to Slug Hemligssen. 

Slug Hemligssen: "I am sure you know what I require of you by now."
Slug Hemligssen: "You must entertain the ruler of Neitiznot while listening to the conversations of his council."
Slug Hemligssen: "When you return I shall ask you a few questions about what you have learned."
Player: "That should not be a problem."
Slug Hemligssen: "You must wear all four pieces of the jester costume and nothing in your hands, as the Burgher's guards will search you thoroughly.
Player: "Well, I've got the ridiculous costume on again."
Slug Hemligssen: "Excellent. Time to visit the Burgher and get jestering."
<end of dialogue>

Go and visit Burger King and order a double whopper with cheese.

Kjedelig Uppsen: "Ah, hello jester. Hey! I've just noticed, you look a little similar to our new champion!"

<end dialogue>

Mawnis Burowgar: "Ah, good timing. I was just thinking I needed a bit of light entertainment."
<swap to minigame layout>
Mawnis Burowgar: "Ah, back again. I hope you've got a new act."
Player: "Err, of course sire. I assure you this act will be somewhat different."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Get on with it then."

<minigame starts>
Overhead dialogues:
Player: "Let me entertain you!"

Mawnis Burowgar: "Jig, you fool!"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Talk, fool"
Mawnis Burowgar: "Juggle, fool."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Dance, fool."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Skip, fool."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Pie in your face"
(If you fail) Mawnis Burowgar: "Useless fool! Return when you routine is more polished!" (Fix the typo if you want)

Front-right guard: "So what do you think of the Burgher's Champion?"
Front-left guard: "<playerpronoun> seems honourable and courageous to me."
Front-right guard: "What about their collaberation with King Sorvott?"
Front-left guard: "Well I trust Mord Gonnars, and he works for the King."
Front-right guard: "And the Champion did help repair your bridges."
Front-left guard: "Yes, well,. So are your militia ready?"
Front-right guard: "I have them anchored near Etceteria."
Front-left guard: "Then I shall sail the potions to them tonight."
Front-right guard: "Then we are ready to launch our raid at dawn?"
Front-left guard: "Absolutely. Long live Burgher Burowgar"
Front-right guard: "And may the Troll King be short-lived!

<minigame ends>

Mawnis Burowgar: "Well, thank you, that was much better than the last jester."
Player: "Thanks."

<end dialogue, quest progresses>

Talk to ol' Sluggy. 


Slug Hemligssen: "Are you ready to make your report, <fremennikname>?

	Select an Option
	"Yes, I am."
		Player: "Yes, I am."
		Slug Hemligssen: "Now I will ask you some questions, but be warned I have other sources of information that will corroborate your answers."
		Player: "I'm ready to answer your questions."
		Slug Hemligssen: "Where are Neitiznot's militia?"
		
		Select an Option
			"They are in a secluded bay, near Miscellania."
			"They are in a secluded bay, near Etceteria"
				Player: "They are in a secluded bay, near Etceteria"
				Slug Hemligssen: "What will Thrakkrad deliver to Neitiznot's militia tonight?"
				
				Select an Option
					"They will be given some potions."
						Player: "They will be given some potions."
						Slug Hemligssen: "Who has been helping Burgher Mawnis Burowgar?"
						
						Select an Option
							"Chief Brundt of Rellekka has been helping Neitiznot."
							"Advisor Ghrim of Miscellania has been helping Neitiznot."
							"I have been helping Neitiznot."
								Player: "I have been helping Neitiznot."
								Slug Hemligssen: "Hmmm, that is very interesting. I believe you're telling me the truth."
								Player: "I would not lie to you."
								Slug Hemligssen: "Clearly not. Well, here is your fee."
								(If you don't have space for the reward)
								Slug Hemligssen: "You don't have space for the King's reward."
								(If you do)
								"The Spymaster hands you 2500 coins."
								Slug Hemligssen: "Right, <fremennikname>, you had better go and talk to the King,  I expect he'll want to discuss your intelligence. "
								<end of dialogue, quest progresses>
							
					"They will be given some fine ales and meat."
					"They will be given some party hats and balloons."
			"They are in a secluded bay, near Rellekka"
		
	"No, I need to make a fool of myself again."
	
Talk to King Sorvott iV
	
King Sorvott IV: "I have just one final task for you before you leave <fremennikname>.
King Sorvott IV: "Guards, secure the doors!"
King Sorvott IV: "So you admit it was you who repaired Neitiznot's bridges?"
Player: "I was following your orders, Sir."
Player: "I was given strict instructions to go along with Mawnis Burowgar's orders while investigating their island."
Player: "As I told your fool of a Spymaster, Neitiznot's militia are not going to attack you."
King Sorvott IV: "Then why does Burgher Mawnis Burowgar amass an army?"
Player: "It is no army Neitiznot has trained, but a raiding party, sire.
Player: "Mawnis Burowgar's goal is to see the leader of the trolls beheaded."
King Sorvott IV: "Do you take me for a fool <fremennikname>? It's all lies!"
King Sorvott IV: "You must have been brainwashed by my cousin! He is EVIL and wants to destroy me! Jah! Tiz so!"
Player: "..."
Player: "Right! That's it! I've had enough!"
Player: "No more lying! No more biting my tongue! Do I take you for a fool? Yes I do!"
Player: "You are so paranoid about Neitiznot that you are running this island into the ground."
Player: "Neitiznot is not going to attack Jatiszo. I'll say it again to try and force it into your think skull! Neitiznot is not going to attack Jatiszo. They don't care about Jatiszo. They care about the trolls and the Troll King who"
Player: "are the real threats to the islands. You are so obsessed with your cousin, however, that you stick your head"
Player: "in the sand whenever it comes to the trolls. But I'm not sue it matters, since I think there is a good chance that you will destroy this village long before the trolls get here!"
Player: "You do not have to dress in a jester's costume to act the fool, your royal crown is more than enough!"
King Sorvott IV: "..."
King Sorvott IV: "No-one has ever talked to me like that before."
Player: "Maybe if they had, you wouldn't be in this mess."
King Sorvott IV: "I should have you beheaded."
Player: "I'd like to see you try."
King Sorvott IV: "So it seems that my cousin's plan is to demonstrate his superiority by killing the Troll King. I cannot let that happen! I will not let him steal the glory."
Player: "You haven't listened to a single word I've been saying, have you?"
King Sorvott IV: "We amass our forces now! There is no time to lose."
King Sorvott IV: "At dawn my men will march upon my ancestor's nemesis, the Troll King."
Player: "Do you even know where to find the Troll King? Your warriors are underfed and tired; your weapons inadequate. You don't stand a chance. Join with your brethren and you may share the glory and perhaps find"
Player: "a way to make peace between your lands. I'm sure the Burgher would be glad of your aid."
King Sorvott IV: "Bah! Don't be ridiculous! He would just stab me in the back and claim glory for himself. My brave warriors will find the Troll King and slay him first. How could they not, they are Jatiszo warriors, not Neitiznot scum."
King Sorvott IV: "You will deliver my decree to Burgher Mawnis Burowgar."
King Sorvott IV: "You shall inform him that my troops attack the western troll caves at dawn and that his interference shall be considered an act of WAR! Long live Jatiszo! Long live ME!"
Player: "Fine. I give up. I will do this final task for you. After that you're on your own - may the gods be with your troops - they're going to need it."
King Sorvott IV: "Fine. Take the decree and go."
"King Sorvott hands you a document."
<end dialogue, quest progresses>
	
Talk to Mawnis Burowgar
	
Mawnis Burowgar: "My militia are en route from Rellekka. Have you found out anything about Jatiszo's plans yet?"
Player: "I have, sir."
Player: "I was instructed to give you this decree by King Sorvott."
"You hand King Sorwott's document to Mawnis Burowgar."
Player: "King Sorvott has spies that have learnt of the troops you have trained."
Player: "Until recently, the believed you planned to assault their town."
Mawnis Burowgar: "The paranoid fool."
Mawnis Burowgar: "It would bring great shame upon my family to break the truce that was signed between King Sorvott III and my father."	Player: "Now that Jatizso's spies have learnt of your plans to attack the troll caves, King Sorvott is raising his guards to assault them himself."
Player: "I believe he plans to depart before you can be ready."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Well, if he thinks the folk of Neitiznot can be intimidated by his threats, he best be ready to accept defeat."
Friedlief Shieldson: "Blasted Spies, how can King Sorvott call himself a Fremennik when he resorts to such dishonourable tactics?"
Mawnis Burowgar: "We have no time to lose. Friedlief, please guide <fremennikname> through the traditions laid down by our ancestors."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Once you have completed these rites I shall appoint you as head of my raiding party."
Friedlief Shieldson: "Indeed, it is written in the sagas of Neitiznot that the Champion of the isle must equip himself with the tools of a Fremennik warrior."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "I offer to act as guide to Thorlak during the traditional rites."
Player: "Very well. What do these rites entail?"
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Firstly, you must equip yourself with the traditional armor of Neitiznot."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "You will need to cull several yaks in order to craft yourself a suit of yak-hide armour."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Once you have a few pieces of yak-hide, return to me and I shall cure them for you."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Then I will give instruction on how this hide may be crafted into a thick jerkin, ideal for protecting yourself from the granite clubs that the trolls of the isles prefer to wield."
Player: "Thank you, Friedlief. I shall return with the yak-hides soon."
<end of dialogue, quest progresses>

Get yak hides and bring them to Mawnis Burowgar to tan. 
Mawnis Burowgar: "You're carrying yak-hide, are you not?"
Player: "How did you know that?"	
Mawnis Burowgar: "The armoma, outlander! It's very distinctive. So do you wish to get your hide cured?"

Select an Option
	"Cure my yak-hide, please."
		Player: "Cure my yak-hide, please."
		Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "I will cure a yak-hide for a fee of 5 gp per hide."
		
		How many hides do you want cured?
			"Cure all my hides."
				Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "There you go."
				<end of dialogue>
			"Cure one hide"
			"Cure no hide"
			"Can you cure any other type of leather?"
	"No thanks, I'll be off then."
	
Craft yak-hide armor with needle/thread.
Talk to Mawnis Burowgar
	
Player: "Thrakkread has helped me to complete the traditional armour of a Fremennik warrior."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Excellent news. Now you have just one more item to craft and I can appoint you as leader of my warband; then you may lead our raid against the trolls."
Mawnis Burowgar: "The final piece of tradional arms is a large Fremennik round shield."
Mawnis Burowgar: "With this you will be able to deflect the large rocks that some of the trolls like to throw at you."
Player: "How may this be crafted?"
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "You will need two arctic pine logs, a length of rope, and some bronze nails and a hammer."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "When you have all of these you should find the tree stump outside of my hut. You will be able to hammer together the shield."
Player: "Thank you. I shall return with a shield soon."
<end of dialogue, quest progresses>

Make the shield then talk to Mawnis Burowgar.

Mawnis Burowgar: "Have you completed the final piece of your Fremennik garb?"
Player: "Friedlief has helped me to complete the traditional shield of the Fremennik warrior."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Excellent work, <fremennikname>."
Mawnis Burowgar: "There is little more for me to say. You have proven your worth to my kinsmen and I, but I must continue with the traditions so..."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Do you, <fremennikname>, solemnly swear to uphold the virtues of courage and honour?"
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "<blue text>Thrakkrad whispers in your ear</blue text> Just repeat what I say."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "'I, <fremennikname>, swear to uphold the virtues of courage and honour."
Player: "I, <fremennikname>, swear to uphold the virtues of courage and honour."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Then it is done."
Mawnis Burowgar: "I hearby appoint Thorlak as Champion of Neitiznot."
Friedlief Shieldson: "Praise be; may the blood of our ancestors flow strongly in our new Champion."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Welcome to the clan of Neitiznot; you shall be welcome in this township forever more."
Mawnis Burowgar: "You have made our township very proud today. We hope you continue to match up to our hopes in the quest which we have for you."
Mawnis Burowgar: "As my kinsmen have mentioned, there is a foul beast dwelling in the caves on the northeasternmost isle."
Mawnis Burowgar: "We ask that you lead out militia against the brute and return with the beast's head as proof of your heroism."
Friedlief Shieldson: "My guards have secured a foothold within the easternmost caves."
Friedlief Shieldson: "We have not seen Jatiszo's militia yet, but some of my scouts have reported hearing distance fighting in the tunnels."
Player: "I shall make my way over to them now, so that we may defeat this foul Troll King."
Friedlief Shieldson: "You should head to the eastern end of the northern isle. You don't want to run in to Jatiszo troops now."
<end of dialogue, quest progresses.>

Go into the cave on the north-eastern isle. 

Player: "Hmm. Left, right, then left again... I'm lost. Best I head toward the sound of fighting."

<cue cutscene>
Bork Sigmundson: "Hold your ground men!"
Honour Guard: "The Champion had better arrive soon. We can't wait much longer!"
Bork Sigmundson: "<She/he> will be here soon. The Burgher trusts <her/him>. That's good enough for me."
Bork Sigmundson: "Sir, Champion <fremennikname> has arrived! I knew <he/she> wouldn't let us down!"
Player: "It was a hard journey here. I trust all of you made it here intact?"
Bork Sigmundson: "A little bruised but nothing a true Fremennik can't handle!"
Player: "Well said!"
Honour guard: "Our supplies are starting to run a little low; we should make our charge soon."
Honour guard: "Once you have helped to slay 10 trolls then you should be able to assault the Troll King."
Honour guard: "We will hold back the troll forces while you cross the bridge to the south of the cave."
Player: "I will find the Troll King there, correct?"
Bork Sigmundson: "Yes sir! I have some supplies with me if you need them, but I only have a small amount left. We took a heavy toll getting here."
Player: "The fact you've saved any at all proves your bravery."
Bork Sigmundson: "Thank you sir. We have food, Strength potions and Prayer potions to see us through this battle."
Bork Sigmundson: "A fine tale we will tell once you have claimed the beast's head."
Bork Sigmundson: "Men, follow <fremennikname>'s orders."
Player: "Ready, men?"
Player: "Warriors, advance!"
<end cutscene>
<end dialogue, quest progresses>


Kill 10 trolls, then cross the rope bridge to the south-west of where you entered the cave.

Defeat the Ice Troll King, then loot its head. 

Return to Mawnis Burowgar.

Player: "I have returned victorious, Mawnis Burowgar."
Friedlief Shieldson: "Hail, Champion of Neitiznot."
Player: "I offer the beast's head as proof that I have completed your task, sir."
Mawnis Burowgar: "I thank you for bringing me this trophy. <fremennikname>, you have done much to bring honour to this isle."
"You hold aloft the Troll King's dead."
Player: "My thanks for the honour you have bestowed upon me, Mawnis Burowgar."
"You hand the Troll King's head to Mawnis Burowgar."
Mawnis Burowgar: "As a mark of gratitude for slaying my nemesis, the foul Troll King, I offer you my helm."
"The Burgher hands you his crown."
"You may choose melee skills to advance by 10,000 XP"


Which of these skills do you wish to add 10,000 XP to?
	"Attack"
		"You increase experience to your Attack skill."
	"Strength"
		"You increase experience to your Strength skill."
	"Defence"
		"You increase experience to your Defence skill."
	"Hitpoints"
		"You increase experience to your Hitpoints skill."

Which of these skills do you wish to add 10,000 XP to?
	"Attack"
		"You increase experience to your Attack skill."
	"Strength"
		"You increase experience to your Strength skill."
	"Defence"
		"You increase experience to your Defence skill."
	"Hitpoints"
		"You increase experience to your Hitpoints skill."

Player: "I thank you for presenting me with such a finely crafted helm, sir."
Mawnis Burowgar: "It makes me proud to know that the helmet of my ancestors will be worn in battle."
Mawnis Burowgar: "I thank you on behalf of all my Kinsmen, <fremennikname>."
Friedlief Shieldson: "Praise be to our brave Champion."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Hail, Champion <fremennikname>."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Thrakkrad, I believe you have finished repairing the remaining bridge."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "That I have sir, we should be able to mine 'runite' once again; now that I have repaired the north-eastern bridge."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Ah, so that is how we compete with the mineral wealth of Jatiszo."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Indeed, the wealth of hese tiny isles may not be spread evenly, but we certainly make the most of what we have."
Player: "I look forward to any other tasks that you may have for me in the future, Burgher Burowgar."
Mawnis Burowgar: "My next task is to make peace with the King of Jatizso."
Player: "I don't think I can help you with that sire. I don't think King Sorvott is speaking with me anymore."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Ah, I see you too have angered King Sorvott IV."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Not to worry, I have my ways of pacifying the King."
Mawnis Burowgar: "Fare thee well, my Champion."
Friedlief Shieldson: "Fare thee well."
Thrakkrad Sigmundson: "Fare thee well."
Player: "Fair thee well, kinsmen of Neitiznot."